Distributed Computing: 

PySpark is a Python package for performing distributed computing. 
https://medium.com/towards-data-science/a-neanderthals-guide-to-apache-spark-in-python-9ef1f156d427


“Spark is a general-purpose distributed data processing engine”


Instead of trying to process a huge dataset or run super computationally-expensive programs on one computer, these tasks can be divided between multiple computers that communicate with each other to produce an output.


NOTE: In a distributed computing system, each individual computer is called a node and the collection of all of them is called a cluster


A single process on our computer is a single system, which operates on its own. If a process does not communicate with other processes, then it inherently isn’t part of a larger system.


A distributed system is nothing more than multiple entities that talk to one another in some way, while also performing their own operations. 


And if we think about a distributed system being a network of computing elements (which is exactly what they are), then we can visualize that network as a graph made up of interconnected nodes.


A node could be a hardware device (like a sensor), or it could it could be a software process (a client or a server). 
 

Apache Hadoop is an open source software platform that also deals with “Big Data” and distributed computing.


Hadoop has a processing engine, distinct from Spark, called MapReduce.


General-Purpose — One of the main advantages of Spark is how flexible it is, and how many application domains it has. It supports Scala, Python, Java, R, and SQL.


Good overview article on Apache Spark: 
https://developer.hpe.com/blog/the-5-minute-guide-to-understanding-the-significance-of-apache-spark/


https://www.databricks.com/blog/2016/07/14/a-tale-of-three-apache-spark-apis-rdds-dataframes-and-datasets.html

 Spark RDDs (Resilient Distributed Datasets) are data structures that are the core building blocks of Spark. A RDD is an immutable, partitioned collection of records, which means that it can hold values, tuples, or other objects, these records are partitioned so as to be processed on a distributed system, and that once an RDD has been made, it is impossible to alter it. 

